---
layout: post
title: "Blog 10"
date: "2020-11-13"
---

## How to setup a FTP server on an EC2 Instance
In today's blog post, I'm going to be going over how to install an FTP server on an AWS EC2 instance and also open the port needed for FTP access which is port 21. But first, let me give you a brief introduction on what FTP is. FTP stands for File Transfer Protocol and it is used for downloading and uploading files between computers. But one huge security flaw of FTP is that everything transmitted including the content and user credentials are not encrypted. So, anybody with a packet sniffer can easily see private information that's transmitted using FTP. As a result, I will also be going over how to setup SSL in the FTP server for better security.

## Launch AWS EC2 Instance
1. Login to your EC2 Dashboard in AWS.
2. Launch a Ubuntu 18.04 64-bit x86 EC2 instance.
3. For the instance type, choose t2.micro.
4. Skip over to the "Configure Security Group" section.
5. Click "Add Rule".
6. For the Type, select "Custom TCP Rule".
7. For Port Range, enter "21".
8. For Source, select "My IP".
9. Click "Review and Launch".
10. Click "Launch".

## Setting up vsftpd
Now, we will be setting up vsftpd in the Ubuntu EC2 instance.
1. SSH into your EC2 instance.
2. Install the vsftpd daemon.
`sudo apt install vsftpd`
3. Add a new user.
`sudo adduser USERNAME_HERE`
4. Enter a password for the user.
5. Edit vsftpd.conf to allow uploading of files.
`sudo nano /etc/vsftpd.conf`
6. Uncomment the "write_enable=YES".
7. Restart vsftpd service.
`sudo systemctl restart vsftpd.service`

## Encrypting the FTP server with SSL
Now let's encrypt the FTP server using SSL for better security and encryption.
1. Edit the config file.
`sudo nano /etc/vsftpd.conf`
2. Make sure it says "ssl_enable=YES".
3. Restart vsftpd service.
`sudo systemctl restart vsftpd.service`


## Connecting to the FTP server
If you're using Ubuntu, it already has a FTP client built in, so there is no need to install an additional one.
1. Connect to the FTP EC2 server using the public IPv4 address found in the EC2 dashboard.
`ftp IPv4_ADDRESS_HERE`
2. Enter the name of the user that we created earlier.
3. Enter the password of the user that we created earlier.
4. You should now be successfully logged into the FTP server.

Here's a list of commands that you can use in the FTP client:

Download a file.
`get`
Upload a file.
`put`
Change directory.
`cd`
List the contents of the current directory.
`ls`
Exit ftp.
`exit`
