---
layout: post
title: "Blog 6"
date: "2020-10-16"
---

## How to setup Samba as a file server using Ubuntu
You may be wondering what is Samba? Samba is a software package that provides stable and fast file, folder, and printer sharing between Windows and Linux computers. It can also act as a domain controller just like Active Directory which handles authentication requests on a domain. It is useful for a corporate network to quickly and easily share sensitive files and folders between users on the local network, without risk of exposure to the outside world.

## Create Ubuntu container using Docker
1. Download Ubuntu 18.04 image.
`docker pull ubuntu:18.04`
2. Create Ubuntu container.
`docker run -it -p 139:139 -p 445:445 -d ubuntu:18.04`
3. Run bash within Ubuntu container.
`docker exec -it CONTAINER_NAME_HERE bash`

## Setup Samba
4. Update the list of available packages and upgrade to any new packages.
`apt-get update && apt-get upgrade`
5. Install Samba package.
`apt install samba`
6. Install vim text editor.
`apt install nano`
7. Open /etc/samba/smb.conf with nano.
`nano /etc/samba/smb.conf`
8. Add this to the bottom of the file.
`[share]
    comment = Ubuntu File Server Share
    path = /srv/samba/share
    browsable = yes
    guest ok = yes
    read only = no
    create mask = 0755`
9. Create the directory path for sharing.
`mkdir -p /srv/samba/share`
10. Modify the permissions of that directory path.
`chown nobody:nogroup /srv/samba/share`
11. Restart the samba service to allow the new configuration to work.
`systemctl restart smbd.service nmbd.service`

## Connecting to the Samba share
1. On Windows, go to My Computer.
2. Right click and click "Add Network Location".
3. Input the network address:
`\\SAMBA_SERVER_IP_ADDRESS\share`
4. Click "Next".
5. Now you should be able to see the shared files on the Samba server!
