---
layout: "post"
title: "Blog 0"
date: "2020-09-04"
---
## Intro on Git
Hello, my name is Josh Castillo and I will be going over Git and explain why it can be useful for projects and also go over basic Git commands based on notes I jotted down from the GitHub docs and YouTube videos on how to use Git and GitHub. This post will also serve an additional purpose by solidifying my knowledge on these two subjects.

But first, let me give you an introduction on what Git allows you to do. Git is a Version Control System for tracking changes made in files. It tracks these changes by taking snapshots or a `commit` of files. It's an incredibly useful tool for projects because it allows project members to see what exactly was changed in the code and project members can create their own branches from the main code. An example for creating a new branch is when you want to create a new feature, without affecting the main code base, so you can create a branch. But, always remember to make sure to merge the new branch into the main branch when the code is production ready. The main branch will always have 100% working clean code, there's a reason why they call it the master branch. 

Where GitHub comes into play is when you want to upload your local repository into a remote repository such as GitHub or BitBucket. GitHub is a hosting website that hosts all your code, and you have the ability to set if you want your code to be publicly viewable or not.

## Git commands
`git init`

This command will initialize the git repository with the necessary git files.

`git status`

This command will show you the status of your staging area.

`git push`

This command will allow you to push to a remote repository such as GitHub.

`git pull`

This command will allow you to pull the latest files from a remote repository such as GitHub.

`git clone`

This command will allow you to duplicate a repository into the current working directory.

`git add`

This command will allow you to add file(s) into the staging area.

`git rm`

This command will allow you to remove file(s) from the staging area.

`git commit -m`

This command will allow you to take snapshots of your files and also include a commit message.

`git branch branch_name_here`

This command will allow you to create a new branch from the main branch.

`git checkout branch_name_here`

This command will allow you to switch to the specified branch.

`git merge branch_name_here`

This command will allow you to merge a branch into the master branch.
