---
layout: post
title: "Blog 4"
date: "2020-10-01"
---

## Hosting a Static Website on Amazon S3

First of all, what is a static website? A static website includes any static content such as HTML pages and CSS files. They may also include client-side scripts made in JavaScript, which only runs within the client's browser.

Now in comparison, what is a dynamic website? A dynamic website contains static content along with dynamic content. This dynamic content is generated from server-side scripting languages such as PHP and ASP. When a website is dynamic, it allows for more customization and functionality than a static website.

## What is Amazon S3?

Amazon S3 is a cloud-based storage solution offered by AWS. You have the ability to store files or objects in the cloud, which allows for high availability and low latency access to your files. It can also be used for storing data for backups and disaster recovery.

## Setting Up Website Hosting on Amazon S3
### Bucket creation
1. First login to your AWS account and go to the AWS Management Console.
2. Click Services on the top left, and click on S3.
3. Next, we want to create a bucket to store all of our files for our static website. Click "Create bucket".
4. Enter the name of the bucket that you want to create.
5. Select the region or location where you want to create your bucket.
6. Click "Next".
7. Uncheck "Block all public access". This needs to be unchecked because we want anybody to be able to visit our website.
8. Check "I acknowledge that the current settings may result in this bucket and the objects within becoming public".
9. Click "Next".
10. Review and verify your configuration for your bucket, before you create your bucket.
11. Click "Create bucket".

### Configuring static website hosting
12. Next, click on the bucket that you just created. Click "Properties".
13. Click "Static website hosting".
14. Click "Use this bucket to host a website".
15. Enter the name of your index document, usually it's "index.html".
16. Click "Save".

### Uploading files
17. Now we want to upload the files that we want to host on our website. Click "Upload".
18. Select the files that you want to upload.
19. Keep clicking "Next" until you see the "Upload" button. Click "Upload".

### Bucket policy creation
20. Next, we need to add a policy to our bucket to allow public access to the files in our bucket. 
21. Click on your bucket.
22. Click "Permissions".
23. Click "Bucket Policy".
24. Copy this bucket policy and paste it into Bucket policy editor.
```{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": "*",
            "Action": [
                "s3:GetObject"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::example.com/*"
            ]
        }
    ]
}```
Replace "example.com" with the name of your bucket.
25. Click "Save".

### Testing the website
26. Let's see if your website is up and running! Click "Properties" and then "Static website hosting". Click on the Endpoint link.
27. Now you should be able to see the files you uploaded and the website that you hosted on Amazon S3!







