---
layout: post
title: "Blog 12"
date: "2020-12-4"
---

## File Recovery of a Lightsail Instance
Imagine disabling the network adapter of an AWS Lightsail instance, because you thought doing so would fix your Internet connection? Well, that exact scenario happened to me today. After I disabled the network adapter, I was immediately disconnected from the RDP session. So, I tried reconnecting again and it was not connecting. Then, I tried restarting the instance from the Lightsail dashboard, and then connecting again afterwards, and I still was not able to connect to the instance. Afterwards I knew there was no way of reconnecting to the Lightsail instance, because what I did was essentially cut off network access of the instance to the AWS infrastructure. Ultimately, I did have some important files on my instance that I needed to recover, so here are the steps I went through to successfully recover my files.

## Creating a Disk Snapshot of Your Instance
1. Make sure you have the latest AWS CLI version 2 installed and configured.
2. Run the following command in your terminal:
`aws lightsail create-disk-snapshot --region REGION_NAME_HERE --instance-name INSTANCE_NAME_HERE --disk-snapshot-name NAME_OF_DISK_HERE`
- Replace REGION_NAME_HERE with the region where your instance is located in.
- Replace INSTANCE_NAME_HERE with the name of the instance that you want to create the disk snapshot from.
- Replace NAME_OF_DISK_HERE with the name of the new disk that we are creating.
3. After the snapshot is created, go to your Lightsail dashboard and go to the "Snapshots" tab.
4. Your newly created snapshot will be under the "Disk Snapshots" category.
5. From the disk snapshot, we need to create a new disk. Click on the 3 dots next to the disk snapshot and select "Create new disk".
6. For the availability zone, make sure to select the same zone as your instance. Afterwards, click "Create disk".
7. Next, we need to create a new instance to attach the disk to it.
8. Create a new Lightsail instance with the same availability zone as the disk , or else it won't work. Also make sure you choose the same instance image and instance plan as your no longer working instance.
9. Next, let's attach the disk to the instance. Go to the Storage tab, and click on the disk we created. Select the instance we just created and click on Attach. 

## Making the Disk Accessible on Windows
1. Connect to your Lightsail instance through RDP by clicking on the computer monitor icon.
2. After you're connected, click on the Start menu and type in "Disk Management".
3. Right click on the disk that you attached to this instance. The label will say "Offline". Now select "Online".
4. The label should now say "Online" and now you've successfully recovered your old instance's files and made them accessible through the File Explorer.