---
layout: post
title: "Blog 9"
date: "2020-11-6"
---

## Intro on AWS CLI
In today's blog post, I will be going over the AWS Command Line Interface (CLI). The AWS CLI can be a faster alternative to utilizing the different services that AWS has to offer, when compared to using the browser-based AWS Management Console. What's great about the AWS CLI is that it offers flexibility of running different commands through Linux shells, Windows command line, and running remote commands through SSH. Every single function that's available in the AWS Management Console is also available to be used in the CLI. 

## Installing AWS CLI on Windows
1. Download the [AWS Installer](https://awscli.amazonaws.com/AWSCLIV2.msi) for Windows.
2. Follow the instructions until you finish installing the program.
3. To verify if the installation was successful you can run the following command:
`aws --version`

## Configuring the AWS CLI
Next, we're going to configure the AWS CLI to connect it to our AWS account. But first, we need to get our access key ID and secret access key from the AWS Management Console. These keys will give the CLI root-level access to our account.
1. Sign into your AWS account.
2. Go to the IAM section in the AWS Console: [https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/users](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/users)
3. Click on the user that you want to connect to the AWS CLI.
4. Click "Security credentials" tab.
5. Click "Create access key". 
6. Copy the "Access key ID" and "Secret access key" into somewhere safe. We will be using them later.
7. Open up a command prompt and enter the following command: 
`aws configure`
8. Input your access key ID that we saved earlier. Hit Enter.
9. Input your secret access key that we saved earlier. Hit Enter.
10. Input the following text to set North California as the default region.
`us-west-1`
11. Leave the default output format blank.
12. Congrats! Now you've properly configured the AWS CLI to connect with your AWS account.

## Using the AWS CLI to create a t2.micro instance
Now, I will be going over how to create an Ubuntu 18.04 t2.micro instance only using the AWS CLI. 

Run the following command:
`aws ec2 run-instances --image-id ami-03fac5402e10ea93b --instance-type t2.micro --key-name KEY_PAIR_HERE`
- The run-instances command allows you to launch an EC2 instance with your specified parameters.
- The image-id option allows you to specify which AMI you want to launch with the instance. We are choosing the Ubuntu 18.04 image from the North California region.
- The instance-type option allows you to specify the type of hardware configuration you want. In this case we are using the t2.micro which is the free tier of AWS.
- The key-name option allows you to specify the key pair which allows you to connect to the instance. Replace KEY_PAIR_HERE with a valid key pair name.

Once you run the above command, you can check your EC2 Management Console to verify if the instance was created, and then connect to your instance with SSH or RDP.

