---
layout: post
title: "Blog 5"
date: "2020-10-08"
---

## How to Setup a Proxy Server on an Amazon EC2 instance

You may ask, what is a proxy server? Well, a proxy server is a server that acts as a middleman for internet requests. In other words, a client host will send a request to a proxy server, and then the proxy server will get the response back from the server host, and then pass the response back along to the client host. Some of the uses of a proxy server include content-filtering, bypassing content restrictions or censorship, and privacy or anonymity. To provide more context on how proxies are used for privacy, when you connect to the web using a proxy server, your home IP address is not shown publicly, but instead your proxy server IP address is shown.

## Create an Ubuntu Amazon EC2 Instance
1. Launch an Amazon EC2 instance.
2. Select the "Ubuntu Server 18.04 LTS (HVM), SSD Volume Type" AMI.
3. Select the "t2.micro" instance type.
4. Jump to the "Configure Security Group" section.
5. Under the inbound rules, for the SSH type rule, select "My IP" as the Source.
6. Click "Add Rule" and select "HTTP" as the Type.
7. Select "My IP" as the source, because we only want to allow our local IP to send HTTP traffic to this proxy server.
6. Click "Add Rule" and select "HTTPS" as the Type.
7. Select "My IP" as the source, because we only want to allow our local IP to send HTTPS traffic to this proxy server.
8. Create a new outbound rule, and set the Type to "All traffic" and set the Destination type to "Anywhere".
9. Click "Review and Launch".
10. Connect to your EC2 instance using SSH and your key pair.

## Squid
Squid is proxy software which allows caching of frequently-requested web pages for faster response times and reducing bandwidth at the same time. We will be installing this software on our Ubuntu server to create the proxy server.

## Installing Squid
1. Let's first get the latest list of available packages and upgrade to any new packages.
`sudo su apt-get update && apt-get upgrade`
2. Install the Squid package.
`apt-get install squid -y`
3. Edit the Squid configuration file.
`vi /etc/squid/squid.conf`
4. Look for "http_access deny all" in the config file. Change this to "http_access allow all".
5. Look for "http_port 3128" in the config file. Change this to "http_port 80", because we are only allowing traffic on the HTTP port 80.
6. Restart the Squid service.
`systemctl restart squid`

## Connecting to Proxy Server
1. If using Windows, go to Settings.
2. Type "Proxy" and click "Change proxy settings".
3. Click on "Use a proxy server".
4. For "Address" input your EC2 instance's Public IPv4 address.
5. For "Port" input "80".
6. Click "Save".
7. Now go to https://www.whatismyip.com/. You'll notice that you now have a different IP address than your home IP address, that's because we are now browsing the Web through the proxy server that we just created!



