---
layout: post
title: "Blog 22"
date: "2021-04-30"
---

## Creating State Effects using Tailwind

Tailwind can be used to add quick and easy hover or focus effects to any element. For example, say you have a table and you want a table row to turn yellow when a user hovers over anything within that row, well all of this can be easily done using utility classes that CSS provides.

### Hover Effects
```html
<button class="bg-green-500 hover:bg-green-700">
  Save Notification Settings
</button>
```

With the above code, the button will say "Save Notification Settings" with a green background. But, when a user hovers over the button it will turn into a darker green. All that was needed was the _hover:_ class followed by the class you want the hover to change into, and it's just as simple as that!

### State Effects

```html
<input name="email-input"
type="email"
placeholder="CSUN Email Address"
class="placeholder-red-500 focus:placeholder-red-300">
```

In the above code example, it showcases an input email box where there is a placeholder text of "CSUN Email Address". The placeholder text is originally a red color, but when a user clicks into the input box, the placeholder text will turn into a lighter red. Using the _focus:_ class allows us to easily target the focus state of that element. That's the power of Tailwind CSS due to ease of use and rapid customizations.

### Group Hover Effects
Let's say you have a table and you want a hover effect applied to the whole row whe a user hovers over any table cell. This can easily be done using a group hover effect.

```html
<table>
  <tr class="group">
    <td class="group-hover:bg-yellow-100">
    Name
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
```

In the above code snippet, I've added a _group_ class to the table row or in other words the parent element. Then, I've added a _group-hover:bg-yellow-100_ class to the table data of "Name". What this will do is when the user hovers over the Name cell in the table, it'll change the background of that cell to a light yellow. Pretty neat right, there's endless ways to customize your website using state effects!