---
layout: post
title: "Blog 16"
date: "2021-03-12"
---

## Responsive Web Design
As part of my frontend developer role in my team, one of the requirements of the website is to develop a responsive website. A responsive website is a website that looks good on both mobile and desktop devices. So, if you were to visit the website on a mobile device, you would have the same user experience as visiting the website on a desktop device.

When I was first creating the website for my team, I was using the CSS code provided from Figma for each design element. But, the problem with this is that Figma uses absolute units instead of relative units for it's CSS code. So while I was developing the website, I noticed that the whole website was being pushed to the left and it wasn't in the center. The reason why this was happening was because in Figma the frame resolution was set to 1440 x 1024, but the resolution of my computer is 1920 x 1080. So, because the resolution of Figma and the resolution of my computer is different the website was being displayed as if it was 1440 x 1024 resolution. So, now I've switched to developing with absolute units and I'm going to be over a few responsive web design techniques.

### Setting the Viewport Width
Setting the viewport is the first thing you should do when developing a responsive website. What this does is, it allows the page to match the width of the device in pixels. This allows the page to match its contents to various screen sizes.

```html
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
```
Copy and paste the above code in between your <head> tags to set the viewport width.

### Scaling Images Properly
Sometimes on websites you will notice that images will get smaller when the resolution is smaller. To fix this, we can set the max width to 100% and now images will be scaled properly.

```css
img {
  max-width: 100%;
}  
```
Copy and paste the above code so that you can target all images and set the max width to 100%.

### Flexbox
One useful technique for making sure your layout is responsive to both mobile and desktop devices is placing your html elements in a flexbox. Flexbox allows you to place items in a row and set different spacing properties for each item so that it looks even. And, when you change the browser width, the box will automatically flex and change to fit the items without needing a horizontal scrollbar. One very useful application of flexbox is for navigation bars, which I used for my team's navigation bar.

```css
div {
  display: flex;
}  
```

The code above will target all divs and change it a flexbox.

Now you have the basic knowledge to create a beautiful website that will look similar on mobile and desktop devices!