---
layout: post
title: "Blog 19"
date: "2021-04-09"
---

## The Power of Flexbox
Have you ever had trouble positioning HTML elements together using CSS? Maybe in the past you used relative and absolute positioning to help position your elements. But, often times the problem with using those types of positioning was that the positions of your elements only looked good on your screen, but not on other screens. In other words, your website was not responsive. The solution to that is using a layout technique called flexbox. Essentially, flexbox is a container element and the elements within the flexbox are called flex items. What you can achieve with using Flexbox, is that it allows for quick and easy alignment of items to each other along the x and y axis. For example, with Flexbox you can easily create a navigation bar without having to mess with absolute pixel value units for the x and y axis of each item. Flexbox takes care of all that automatically using relative units. 

### Creating a Navigation Bar using Flexbox
Here's the code snippet.
```html
<div class="flex justify-between">
<a href="#index.html">Home</a>
<a href="#about.html">About Us</a>
<a href="#contact.html">Contact Us</a>
</div>
```
First, let's create the flexbox container using a div tag and apply a class of flex to that tag. All of the anchor tags within the div tag are all flex items or children of the flexbox container. Next, I added a class of justify-between so that the navigation bar elements are evenly spaced out. That's pretty much it, all that needs to be done is visually styling the navigation bar to however you like, such as adding a border or changing the colors of the text. But, all of that can be easily achieved using Tailwind.

### Flexbox Properties

Some of the other properties that you can add to Flexbox CSS is flex-direction which allows you to specify if the flexbox is displayed as a row or as a column. You can also use flex-wrap to make the flexbox items wrap based on the screen width. Then finally, one last property that I want to mention is flex-grow and flex-shrink which allows for the flex item to grow and shrink if necessary based on the size of the flex container.
