---
layout: post
title: "Blog 23"
date: "2021-05-07"
---

## Amazon Lightsail
Ever feel like AWS EC2 instances have too many options to configure? Do you want an easy way to quickly deploy a server, without having to configure too many options? Well then, Amazon Lightsail is the server solution that will fit your needs. Lightsail is a more user-friendly and intuitive alternative to deploying a server from Amazon. What's great about it, is that it uses the same exact EC2 instances from AWS. Also, the pricing structure of Lightsail is different as you are charged a fixed amount per month, while EC2 you are charged by the hour. Often times, Lightsail can be a cheaper alternative than using EC2. For example, for a Windows server with 4 cores and 16 GB memory, Lightsail only charges $120 per month. In comparison, for the same specs, a server from EC2 would cost $125 per month.

## Creating a Lightsail Instance
1. In the Lightsail Dashboard, click the "Create instance" button.
2. Click the Change AWS Region and Availability Zone button. For this example we are choosing Virginia us-east-1.
3. Next, select a Platform. Your choices are either Linux/Unix or Microsoft Windows.
4. Next, select if you want an operating system only or an operating system with apps.
5. Next, select the pricing plan and specs that you would like.

Then, after that click the "Create instance" at the bottom of the page, and just like that with 5 easy steps, you've now created a Lightsail instance. All that's left to do is to connect to the server.

## Connecting to the Lightsail Instance
1. Go back to the Lightsail Dashboard, click on the server that you just created.
2. Go to the Windows Start Menu and type RDP and hit Enter.
3. Copy the Public IP that the Lightsail dashboard provides and paste that into the Computer input of the RDP window.
4. Copy the user name that the Lightsail dashboard provides and paste that into the User name input of the RDP window.
5. Click the Connect button.
6. For the password, use the password that the Lightsail dashboard provides.

After following all these steps, you should now be successfully inside the Lightsail instance!
